Trame Dashboard (#651)
BLAST-ImpactX/impactx: docs/source/usage/dashboard.rst

.. _usage-dashboard:

Dashboard
=========

> This document provides instructions on how to launch the ImpactX Dashboard, a browser-based interface to ImpactX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ImpactX Dashboard is a browser-based interface to ImpactX.
It provides a graphical interface to a subset of ImpactX functionality.

.. note::

   ImpactX Dashboard is provided as a preview and continues to be developed.
   Let us know in GitHub `discussions <https://github.com/ECP-WarpX/impactx/discussions>`__ and `issues <https://github.com/ECP-WarpX/impactx/issues>`__ how it works for you and what kind of workflows you would like to run in it.
```

Launching the Dashboard
-----------------------

> 1. **Standalone browser application:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ImpactX Dashboard can be run in two modes, as a standalone browser application or inside a Jupyter notebook.

1. **Standalone browser application:**
```

   Let us know in GitHub `discussions <https://github.com/ECP-WarpX/impactx/discussions>`__ and `issues <https://github.com/ECP-WarpX/impactx/issues>`__ how it works for you and what kind of workflows you would like to run in it.

Launching the Dashboard
-----------------------

The ImpactX Dashboard can be run in two modes, as a standalone browser application or inside a Jupyter notebook.

1. **Standalone browser application:**
   After installation of ImpactX including the Python modules, launch:

   .. code-block:: bash

      impactx-dashboard

2. **JupyterLab:**
   Start `JupyterLab <https://jupyter.org/install>`__, e.g., logging into a Jupyter service at an HPC center or locally on your computer using:

   .. code-block:: bash

      jupyter-lab

   Inside JupyterLab, run the following Python code in a notebook to initialize and display the dashboard:

   .. code-block:: python

      from impactx.dashboard import JupyterApp

      # Create new application instance
      app = JupyterApp()

      # Start the server and wait for the UI to be ready
      await app.ui.ready

      # Display the UI in the JupyterLab notebook
      app.ui

> Navigating the GUI
> ------------------
> 
> The GUI is designed with a user-friendly interface that includes multiple tabs and menu options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigation
----------

The user-friendly interface includes multiple tabs and menu options, intended to be navigated from top to bottom:
```
